In this video, we'll
explore a topic that can
contribute to your success
during the interview process:
How to build rapport with
your potential employer.
Rapport is a friendly
relationship
in which the people involved
understand each other's ideas
and communicate well
with each other.
Building rapport begins with
the very first
interaction you have with
the company's staff by phone,
email, or video conference.
It's important to use
a professional tone in
the email you write,
expressing your
interest in the job.
But it's also important to
be polite and friendly.
Expressing appreciation for
being considered and having
the potential opportunity to
interview is one way
to build rapport.
When and if you have an
initial phone screen,
you can use a friendly,
conversational tone of voice.
To do this, try smiling
while you talk.
While it's true
that nobody can see
you smile on a phone call,
smiling while you talk can
make you sound friendlier.
During the phone screening
and in-person interview,
you can ease interview
nervousness by
engaging actively in a way
that feels natural to you.
That can mean simply saying:
"Hello, nice to meet you."
You can even start a short,
friendly conversation
by asking the interviewer
how their day is going.
Or, if the weekend just passed,
you might ask the interviewer:
"How was your weekend?"
Make eye contact when you ask
these questions during
an in-person interview,
or be sure to look directly into
the camera during
a video interview.
This will show the
interviewer that
you're engaged in
the conversation.
Oftentimes, during the second
half of an interview,
the interviewer will ask if
you have any questions for them.
As we discussed earlier,
it's important to
have some questions
prepared to ask at this point.
Here are some suggestions.
You could ask:
What is the biggest challenge
I might face coming
into this role and how would
I be expected to
meet that challenge?"
Or you might ask:
"What would you say
is the best part
about working for this company?"
Or: "What is a typical
day like for an analyst?"
Another great question is:
"What is the potential
for growth in this role?"
Asking questions shows
that you're engaged in
the conversation and you're
interested in the company
and the position.
It also shows the employer
that you are confident
and that you want to make
sure that their company is
a good match for you before
you make a commitment.
It's nice to send a
follow-up email a
day or two after your
in-person interview.
This is just a brief email
thanking the interviewer for
the opportunity
to meet with them
and learn more about
the organization.
It's also a good idea to mention
something specific from your
interview in this email.
It shows that you were actively
engaged in the conversation.
Remember, the employer is
probably interviewing
other candidates.
So sending a follow-up
email will help set you
apart and remind the
interviewer of your discussion.
Building rapport
with the interviewer
and other employees is
an important skill when
interviewing for your
first security position.
Writing friendly but
professional emails
before and after the
interview and engaging
in friendly conversation
during the interview can
help set you apart as a
great candidate for the job.